# Tesco-Data-Analysis

Introduction:  
The Tesco 1.0 dataset, which is specific to the borough region of Greater London, has been analysed to discover valuable insights. It is to be noted that the purchase dataset was gathered at the census area level to maintain anonymity. The boroughs consist of 33 distinct localities with an average population of 262,634 following the spatial aggregate. Each record serves as a distinct representation of a geographic area, providing comprehensive data on the transaction volume, nutritional attributes of commonly purchased food products and other geographic data. This includes detailed information on average calorie content and nutritional composition, providing valuable insight into nutritional trends in specific regions. However, there are a few limitations, despite the extensive purchase data, the dataset doesn’t capture the food consumptions on an everyday level. Basing nutrient values on an average product consumed in a specific area hinders the ability to account for individual eating habits, making it challenging to compare across different factors such as age and gender. Another such bias are the self-selected Tesco Clubcard owners that lack representativeness in terms of demographics, socioeconomic status, or geography. 

Results and Conclusion: 
The density distribution for different areas was observed and the peaks inferred suggested that a significant number of areas in the borough regions have a population density of 5,000-7,500 people per square kilometre. It has been noticed that areas with extremely high population density are less common. People per square kilometre was plotted against area codes to identify regions with both the highest and lowest population densities. Bromley stood out as one of the least densely populated areas, while Islington stands out as one of the most densely populated areas in Greater London. 

Comprehending the preferred food categories is important for any analysis involving grocery purchase data. However, this analysis was done at an area level due to lack of data at the individual level. The data involving the average fraction of food/beverage products bought at a specific area for each category of product was analysed and it revealed a consistent trend: a higher proportion of fruits and vegetables in shopping carts across all areas, alongside a notably lower proportion of spirits. When these data fractions when correlated against each other notable correlations emerged: a strong negative correlation was observed between the proportion of fruits and vegetables bought with grains, soft drinks, and sweets; a negative correlation between red meat and eggs; and a positive correlation between red meat and poultry.
Income Dataset contains earnings information for employees in boroughs focusing on adult rates with uninterrupted pay for the survey period. It provides annual median, mean, and lower quartile earnings by borough and UK region, presented in both nominal and real terms. Several preliminary analyses were carried on the data which made it easier and accurate in terms of further analysis. Income data for the years 2008,2009 and 2015 were extracted. The average income data of 2015 failed to show any significant correlation with buying patterns of customers in the borough region. Although it was a negative correlation between average income and readymade food it is very low to make a conclusion. However, there was a fairly decent positive correlation of >0.3 indicated that areas with higher average income tend to buy more fresh fruits and vegetables, and vice versa. This was aligned with the literature finding from 2015 that stated “low-income households of UK in the lowest ten percent consumed an average of 3.3 portions of fruits and vegetables per day”. The income data of 2008 and 2009 was particularly chosen to understand the trend in average income between the great recession years and 2015. After reviewing the literature, it was noted that unemployment had returned to pre-downturn levels by 2015, with an increase in the UK's average income. However, data plotted for borough regions showed a slight increase from 2008 followed by a decrease between 2009 and 2015. Notably, Enfield, Haringey, and Hackney experienced significant drops during the recession years, aligning with literature findings. 
Bibliography: 
1.	Aiello, L.M.,, Quercia, D.,, Schifanella, R., and Del Prete, L., 2020. Tesco Grocery 1.0, a large-scale dataset of grocery purchases in London. [online] Nature News. Available from: https://www.nature.com/articles/s41597-020-0397-7 [Accessed 19 Apr. 2024]. 
2.	Anon, n.d. [online] Poverty and inequality in London - london school of economics. Available from: https://www.lse.ac.uk/geography-and-environment/research/lse-london/documents/Reports/Poverty-and-inequality-in-London.pdf?from_serp=1 [Accessed 19 Apr. 2024]. 
3.	Emma Bedford, and 11, O., 2023a. Daily portions of fruit and vegetables consumed in the UK 2001-2015. [online] Statista. Available from: https://www.statista.com/statistics/326786/fruit-and-vegetables-daily-portions-in-the-united-kingom-by-household-income/ [Accessed 19 Apr. 2024]. 
4.	Scruton, V.L./ J., 2018b. The 2008 recession 10 years on. [online] The 2008 recession 10 years on - Office for National Statistics. Available from: https://www.ons.gov.uk/economy/grossdomesticproductgdp/articles/the2008recession10yearson/2018-04-30 [Accessed 19 Apr. 2024]. 


